AUTHOR: Bryan
TITLE: 20 x 20
BASENAME: 20_x_20
STATUS: Publish
ALLOW COMMENTS: 1
CONVERT BREAKS: __default__
ALLOW PINGS: 1
DATE: 01/14/2007 02:24:49 PM
-----
BODY:
<a title="&gt;&gt; noticias &gt;&gt; arquitectura :: arte :: diseño &gt;&gt;&gt;" href="http://www.noticiasarquitectura.info/especiales/casa_20_20.htm">-- noticias -- arquitectura :: arte :: diseño </a>
<blockquote>
La casa 20x20 es el resultado de la exploración de un módulo cuadrado referido por un material y sometido a prueba mediante un programa. El proceso se inició mediante la elección del revestimiento: cerámica 20x20. Luego se generó tres condiciones: Primero, toda la casa debía estar dividida en módulos perfectos de 20 centímetros. En segundo lugar, todos los recintos, vanos, muebles, iluminación, etc. estarían referidos a una trama de 20x20 centímetros que operaría como plano regulador tanto dentro como afuera de la casa. Y por último, la casa debía tener una planta cuadrada. Esto último, por tratarse de un ejercicio que en parte opera bajo la idea de esquematización del espacio y su consecuencia de la referencia directa con las proporciones del material.</blockquote>

Is this my first post in spanish? hmm...Just today one of my neighbors was shocked when I spoke spanish to her. I explained that my mother is Costarricense. Now I expect she'll try to talk to me only in spanish, and I'll suffer.

Back at the topic. this is an article (with lots of pictures, non-linguists) about a modern-styled modular house which is completely open on three sides (glass walls) and completely closed on the fourth. 

Beautiful design, but is it practical? I tend to think it could be, if positioned correctly. I think that American ideas about what makes a home and what is acceptable as living space are underdeveloped and lacking true foundation. We have vast expanses of land and resources so we can do anything we want--even if it is excessive, inefficient and alienating. When dealing with spatial, resource, or financial limitations, the human mind is capable of coming up with much better methods. 

I've been thinking about this a lot, as I received two wonderful books on <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/3823845276/ref=wl_it_dp/105-1201587-7343640?ie=UTF8&coliid=I37MW39FJ6EP98&colid=3MRCPZ71AFE1F">design</a> and <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0789310651/ref=wl_it_dp/105-1201587-7343640?ie=UTF8&coliid=I50XX6IEDJTKR&colid=3MRCPZ71AFE1F">spatial architecture</a> over the holidays. I've been poring over them and even redesigned our living space to be more deliberate and indicative of our lifestyle. Maybe I'll at pics of the house at a later date.
-----
EXTENDED BODY:

-----
EXCERPT:

-----
KEYWORDS:

-----


